Our story begins in the mid sized city of Mjola, a coastal town in the western rim of the kingdom of Lagos. Their entry across the Redrock mountains has only recently taken place, and Lagos has amplified their efforts in maintaining a strong presence in this part of the world. This as culminated in the launching of the Bideford, the flagship of their western fleet. Amongst the spectators to the launch, we find some unassuming characters: Dhalin, R’yss and Hobbs. Henceforth known as the party. Disaster strikes though, and the Bideford goes down in flames. A clear work of sabotage. A small skirmish ensues at the scene, where the prominent commander Jon __ is saved by the skin of his teeth.  His wits seem to falter though, as he swears he was struck by Geos, a legendary apparition that brings calamity wherever he visits. The party gets involved, as they were part of the fighting. They can corroborate that they clashed with some strange, pale opponent who knew powerful magic. The party is enlisted by the military captain Xan to sniff out this ghost, and appointed a battle cleric to aid them in their venture, Fadjer.

Their first order of business is gathering intelligence. In a tavern called the Shifty Cauldron, they meet another pair of adventurers called Parry and Ranaeril, following a similar path. They share the knowledge of a thief master called Syrnix which would be a good start. Through some maneuvering they manage a meeting, and the woman shows up with a retinue of orcs. She is luckily won over by Ranaeril’s handsomeness, and they spend the night together. She says the figure has close ties to the Lorewood elves, a faction the Lagosi are actively at war with the the southern border. They will not be friendly, but she tells of a secret and holy area called The Radient Glens. Should  the party manage to visit it, they will be seen as blessed in the elves’ eyes and gain clemency. The existence of them are a secret though, so they must swear to guard it. Before they go, R’yss approaches his employer, a cold mercenary overload named Sasha. He hardballs her on the information and says he is going his own way, to her fury.

The party sets off on horseback for the journey. They will report at the Green Fort, one of the Lagosi fortifications along Lorewood. In a last glance towards Mjola behind them, Ranaeril spots a reverant woman with silver skin and long blond hair, looking back at him. She feels familiar, but suddenly disappears. Almost immediately they realize they are closely followed by a band of horsemen, which they throw off their lead by hiding in the roadside bushes. The horsemen were soldiers from Berufell, a nearby city state, governed by rich merchants and a constant thorn in the side of Lagos. At night they approach a farmhouse run by an elderly dwarven couple, and are allowed to stay the night in their barn. A fire unfortunately breaks out in the main house, and the party clashes with raiding orcs.The elderly couple does not survive. In the fighting, Parry discovers an enbroideded box in the house, which he lockpicks, finding a brilliant diamond inside. The party questions a surviving orc before executing him, learning that the orcs work for the elves in retrieving some object they have not been told the full story about. Using delving magic, they discover a potent magical source in an overgrown field. They excavate, and find a mysterious seal with an inscription around the ring, which Dhalin copies. They are unable to open it.

The next day, a band of people are visiting the farm from seing the smoke. The party is invited to their village for a somber feast celebrating their slaying of the orcs. Here they learn the Berufell soldiers have been asking questions about them, and how life was different before Lagos made their conquest of the lands. Fadjer cures the ailments of a small sickly girl and R’yss chases a blushing young maid. The day after they continue, entering wild territory. That night a troll hound interrupts them, and an intense fight ensues. Parry and Hobbs are gravely injured and poisoned, but they prevail. The days proceed. One night, a strange light blinks in a nearby forest patch. Dhalin scouts it with his bird, and finds a shriveled old man floating on a lake with a wisp of light swirling around his paddle. He states that he is the protector of the lake. The next day he is gone.

Eventually they find a magnificent mansion on a hill, sprawling with soldiers. It is run by a fellow named Xern, and is used as a early outpost for the military, a hub for trade and provisions. They rent slummy rooms in the basement, and the ones not bound to their bed visit a drinking establishment. Ranaeril soon realizes that most of them are racist against elves. He argues with a lieutenant named Ranfael, who threatens with calling down Marshall Feykfir on him, a leading commander for the Lagosi army, stationed at the Green Fort. In the bar, Dhalin meets Kuneiril, a boastful youth, whose pockets are lined with gold. Dhalin talks him by the mouth, and Kuneiril invites Dhalin to a private dinner in his luxurious rooms. Here he meets his two uncles, Leyneril and Ko. Leyneril is the diplomatic and influential type. Leyneril drafts the party a sealed letter to bring to Feykfir, granting them audience with him. They will leave with a squadron heading from the mansion to the Green Fort in the morning.

Meanwhile, Ranaeril has visited a provisions office for a map. He mentions the Radiant Glens, and the female clerk, Oxonia/Melisa divulges that she is a Lorewood elf in disguise. She meets them in their room, and hands them a secret map drafted by the elves themselves, telling of elven settlements and dangers - a vulpine made of the sun, a mud people living in the river banks, and more. Her motives for helping are of providence - she has an inherent feeling they will aid the elves. But they must keep the map hidden, as it would fatally compromise the elven campaign if the Lagosi retrieved it.

Ranfael is leading the squadron. Other notable characters are a wizard named Kim, and a strong female fighter named Tear, whom R’yss has a keen eye on. The caravan experiences a blitz ambush from elves together with wolves, hitting the vanguard hardest. Otherwise travels are good, and they arrive at the Green Fort in the day. Hobbs recognizes the banners of house Boyle, a major house in the southern regions of the Valley of Mysts. A long way from home. He also spots one of the lordlings, a fellow named Harrick Boyle. They are accommodated well after handing the letter to a captain called Maskus. R’yss seeks out Tear, and the two of them are an item. The next day starts with menial upkeep, procuring better items and the sort. R’yss is interested in magical wrist bands, but after a visit to a artificer who can create them, master Ment, he learns they are being gatekept by a rowdy group called the Thundergods, bullying the master into serving only them. R’yss promises to aid him against the group if he is granted a pair. Ranaeril and Parry go practicing archery, feeling alienated by the others for being different. Parry takes him into the forest perimeter, where he shows him a pet bat he has been keeping.

A lieutenant called Veyrel eventually picks up the party, and leads them up to the highest levels, reserved for Feykfir and the ones closest to him. Here they meet the imposing man in his oriental dormitory. He is outwardly pleasant, but with a viperish charisma. He divulges, exclusively between them of course, that he has a more pragmatic relationship with the elves than most of his subordinates, one common between leaders of rival faction, where diplomacy and mutual respect are important. In addition to their current task, he asks them to deliver a magically warded box to an old elf roaming the forest named Zanmagel. He can often be found at the Radient Glens, which Feykfir also tells them about in secrecy. They must lay low on the fact that they already know of it. He also gives them an inferior map to what Melisa already gave them. Should they be captured by the elves, he tells them to demand trial by justice of their own choosing, as he has the grip on three corrupt justices they can use.  Finally, he tells them it is urgent they return within a fortnight, lest the be branded as defectors and outlaws.

They are given everything they need from the fort, as well as enhanced magical items, and travel into true enemy territory on foot. The first night is an unpleasant run in with wolves, which they manage to fully dispatch of. The day after they encounter a marsh containing a hydra, that they try to circumvent. They fail as they need to cross a tricky waterway, but successfully disengage by Dhalin putting the hydra to sleep. It puts them off course however. By nightfall they happen upon a peaceful meadow with a dilapidated cottage on top of a hill, where they spend the night. However, Fadjer is haunted by strange dreams, of a man in black burnished full armor swallowed by a fantastic light. He was standing on the hill they are squatting. As he tells the others, Hobbs reports that it matches the description of the fearsome general Kanral Blackthorn, commander for a bygone kingdom called Qeel. The fate of the kingdom is doused in myth, as its downfall was rapid, caused by a great catastrophe. Another magical delving, and they realize they are surrounded by powerful magic. They excavate the hard packed floor and find the tomb of the man from the dreams, buried with his sword and armor, both buzzing with magical energy. They rob his grave for all its valuables.

The travel continues through the vibrant forest. R’yss spots and investigates an anomaly in a large oak, which turns out to be a hidden bag with a sleeping cot and other provisions for a sentry post. It contains a report in elvish, which Ranaeril states is a sentry ledger last signed by an elf named Leynfel, detailing spottings of some creature named Axxos. Another day passes, and they meet the river Mellen. Here they enter a thick fog and encounter its inhabitant, a mist stalker, which they slay. Eventually they find a crossing where the river is not too violent, although it turns out it just as forceful. Only R’yss manages to cross. Separated from the others, he is approached by the elves with laurel crowns and cloaks of leaf, coming to take him captive. He attempts an escape with the others, but they are all pinned down by a large company of elves. The cloaked ones are their leaders, headed by a sage called Kynnier Maekber.

They try to parlay as Lagosi diplomats, but the elves will have none of it. They are to be taken to Koyol, a elven city, and treated as any other Lagosi prisoners. The group is split into three. They travel for three days and nights where they are mostly treated bad to indifferently. A jaded captain called Maerono is angry with Dhalin for his loyalties, and they have discussions back and forth. Kynnier is more gentle with Ranaeril and R’yss. In the end, the parties squat in vicinity of the town, and are approached by two of the Oyolto, the governing city council, named Viv og Pannanarak, which welcome the prisoners as pigs for slaughter. They are led to a low stone building, and put into pens with scripture books to recite their sins. They break out of the pens, and meet some of the other prisoners, including Ashkar og Boyolt. They say the typical prisoner simmers here for two days before they are fetched and never seen again. Personally they have been her for multiple years, not knowing why they are treated differently. A large double door leads to another room, which they force open, entering an empty office with an open back door.
